well we all know don't we the reasons
why the United States intervened in the
Gulf the way they we did in the end
killing between 100,000 and two hundred
thousand iraqis as both the 303 I think
Americans killed either in combat or in
combat related accidents and we
certainly have restored to power the
legitimate authority in Kuwait in fact
we've done it applying that age-old all
american political principle of one man
one vote in this case one man the in
there one vote his we heard bush back in
august didn't we at the very beginning
say they saying that our way of life was
at stake we had to do something about
that invasion of kuwait we also heard
didn't we besides the way of life was at
stake we had to intervene to protect the
access to the energy resources of the
Persian Gulf another one was that we had
to stop naked aggression what we did not
get our alternative interpretations of
the events that occurred and that's what
I want to speak about here tonight it's
my opinion that the United States needed
an international crisis an international
threat to replace the crisis in Europe
that largely disappeared with the
collapse of communism and the chaos in
the Soviet Union why in order to keep
the permanent war economy going to
justify continuing the situation we're
in more than well more than fifty
percent of the federal budget goes to
military purposes well this means that
the military expenditures in the United
States are the motor of US economy and
they have been that ever since about
nineteen fifty it's worth reviewing the
history because that's where this crisis
I think comes from this sought for
needed crisis in early nineteen fifty
there was extreme worry at the highest
levels of the truman administration that
the united states was likely to return
into the conditions of the Great
Depression of the 1930s and so early in
1950 the decision was taken that this
domestic economic problem was going to
be solved through militarism that is
through rearmament in the United States
and through us financing of the
rearmament of Western Europe
particularly western Germany the
document which provides the analysis of
the world at that time and the u.s.
place in the world and the internal
situation in Europe in the United States
was top secret for 25 years in 1975 it
was accidentally or through error
released and published it is known as
NSC 68 it was written by NSC standing
for National Security Council it was
written by Paul Mitzi and it is a very
detailed document the main operative
conclusion though was this is a quote
from the document the United States and
other free nations were within a period
of a few years at most experienced a
decline in economic activity of serious
proportions unless more positive
governmental programs are developed well
the solution adopted those more positive
governmental programs was expansion of
the military but Truman could not get
this program through Congress at first
there was opposition there and public
opposition to the enormous new taxes
that this program would require he went
on national radio declared a state of
national emergency and said what Bush's
remarks about our way of like being a
steak reminded me of he mustered all the
hype and emotion he could and Truman
said among other things he said our
homes our nation all the things that we
believe in are in great danger this
danger has been created by the rulers of
the Soviet Union in his speech he also
called for massive increases in military
spending for US and European forces
quite apart from the needs in Korea well
there was no threat from the sofa
Union they were still rebuilding from
the rubble of World War two in which
they had lost 20 million people they
were no threat but they were
manufactured from 1950 on from the time
of Korea on as a grave threat to the
United States and that became the
justification for this program which
truman through manipulation of the query
korean war had been able finally to get
through Congress the result was that in
the first two years that is the two
years between 1950 1952 the US military
budget more than tripled from 13 billion
dollars in nineteen fifty two forty four
billion dollars in 1952 and during the
same two-year period u.s. military
forces doubled to 3.6 million people
under arms this was the beginning of the
permanent war economy in the united
states the korean war by the way went on
for three more years after it could have
ended in the end 34,000 us were dead
more or less more than 100,000 wounded
and the total casualty count was in the
millions it is worth recalling that
because from 1950 on the Soviet threat
was the justification the justification
for the permanent war economy and the
justification for these enormous
military spending expenditures what does
that mean and far as the United States
is concerned well it means that we have
not addressed or begun to solve the many
domestic crises that we all know exists
there's no need really to go through
this litany of the worst educational
system in the developed world one in
three in this country illiterate either
totally or to the degree that they
cannot function in a society based on
the written word healthcare not just the
cost but the fact that 40 million people
in this country have no health insurance
the only developed country in the world
with no national health plan fine on and
on the fact that only about what is it
sixty percent about two-thirds of the
eligible voters
register to vote and of those who
register only about eighty percent
actually votes so only in the end fifty
percent of the eligible voters vote in
national elections in this country and
that means that a president is elected
with around twenty-four twenty-five
percent of the potential vote the litany
goes on the environment the
infrastructure finding a prevention cure
for AIDS the violence we see everywhere
and in every form in the United States
when you put all these things together I
don't think anyone would argue add drugs
of course anyone would argue that we
have a domestic society in profound
crisis and the reason why over all these
years these crises have not been solved
is in my opinion because those who
really control and rule the United
States don't want them solved imagine
what would happen if we had and informed
electorate if we didn't have the worst
educational system if we had a
negligible perhaps illiteracy rate here
there might be an informed electorate we
might be debating real substantive
issues in the electoral process or in
the political process in the United
States there might be a threat in this
country of real democracy if we solve
the domestic crises in this country
people might clamor to participate if
there was a real debate there might be a
threat of a third party I mean a second
party in the United States
there are all kinds of threats to
elitist control of the United States if
we were to solve these domestic crises
in my opinion and it is for this reason
that we have always needed this foreign
threat and its foreign crisis in order
to justify putting the money into
military expenditures instead of
converting the economy once and for all
too human purposes during those 40 odd
years of the Cold War the CIA has been a
very important factor or tool or
instrument of the President of the
United States in waging what is
continuing today this new world order of
george bush or new international order
seems to me to be nothing more really
than the institutionalization of the
north-south dimension of the old Cold
War that is the war against the third
world for control of their natural
resources their labor and their markets
you